Gender Prediction for E-Commerce

With the evolution of the information and communication technologies and the rapid growth of the Internet for the exchange and distribution of information, Electronic Commerce (e-commerce) has gained massive momentum globally, and attracted more and more worldwide users overcoming the time constraints and distance barriers.

It is important to gain in-depth insights into e-commerce via data-driven analytics and identify the factors affecting product sales, the impact of characteristics of customers on their purchase habits.

It is quite useful to understand the demand, habits, concern, perception, and interest of customers from the clue of genders for e-commerce companies. 

However, the genders of users are in general unavailable in e-commerce platforms. To address this gap the aim here is to predict the gender of e-commerce’s participants from their product viewing records.


About Data Source:

PAKDD 2015 Conference


Data Dictionary 

Train file: CSV containing the product viewing data with gender as label
Variable 	Definition
session_id 	Session ID
startTime 	Start time of the session
endTime 	End Time of the session
ProductList 	List of products viewed
gender 	(Target) male/female


Product list contains list of products viewed by the user in the given session and it also contains the category, sub category, sub-sub category and the product all encoded and separated with a slash symbol. Each consecutive product is separated with a semicolon.


Test file: CSV containing sessions for which gender prediction is to be submitted
Variable 	Definition
session_id 	Session ID
startTime 	Start time of the session
endTime 	End Time of the session
ProductList 	List of products viewed


Submission file format
Variable 	Definition
session_id 	Session ID
gender 	(Target) Male/Female

Evaluation Metric

Submissions are evaluated on accuracy between the predicted and observed gender for the sessions in the test set.


Public and Private Split

Test sessions are further divided into Public (40%) and Private (60%)

    Your initial responses will be checked and scored on the Public data.
    The final rankings would be based on your private score which will be published once the competition is over.

 
Guidelines for Final Submission

Please ensure that your final submission includes the following:

    Solution file containing the predicted gender (male/female) in the test dataset (format is given in sample submission csv)
    Code file for reproducing the submission, note that it is mandatory to submit your code for a valid final submission

Hackathon Rules

    The final standings would be based on private leaderboard score
    Setting the final submission is recommended. Without a final submission, the submission corresponding to best public score will be taken as the final submission
    Use of external dataset or labels from open source will lead to disqualification from the leaderboard
    Entries submitted after the contest is closed, will not be considered
    The code file pertaining to your final submission is mandatory while setting final submission
    Throughout the hackathon, you are expected to respect fellow hackers and act with high integrity.

